.TH BULKCOMPRESS 1 "July 2024" "Version 1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bulkcompress \- compress first-level folders within specified directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bulkcompress
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIDIRECTORY\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bulkcompress
is a tool for compressing multiple first-level folders within specified directories. It can handle different compression formats, add unique identifiers to avoid overwriting, delete original folders after compression, and generate SHA1 hashes for compressed files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Specify the compression format. Supported formats are zip, rar, tar.gz, tar.bz2, 7z, iso, and cbz. Default is tar.gz.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-unique
Add a unique 4-character hash to the filename if it already exists.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delete
Delete the original folder after successful compression. Will not delete the current working directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be done without actually performing any actions.

.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-prefix " " \fIPREFIX\fR
Add PREFIX to compressed filenames.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-suffix " " \fISUFFIX\fR
Add SUFFIX to compressed filenames.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
Include hidden folders in the compression process. When compressing hidden folders, the leading dot is removed from the compressed filename.
.TP
.BR \-\-with\-hash
Generate SHA1 hash for each compressed file and save in a file named sha1-keys in the same directory as the compressed file.
.TP
.BR \-\-full\-stop
Stop processing if an error occurs during compression of any folder.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Compress first-level folders in multiple directories using the default format (tar.gz):
.B bulkcompress directory1 directory2 directory3
.TP
Compress first-level folders using zip format and delete original folders:
.B bulkcompress -f zip -d directory1 directory2
.TP
Compress first-level folders, adding a unique identifier if files already exist:
.B bulkcompress -u directory1 directory2
.TP
Compress all first-level folders (including hidden) and generate SHA1 hashes:
.B bulkcompress -a --with-hash directory1 directory2
.TP
Perform a dry run to see what would be compressed:
.B bulkcompress --dry-run directory1
.SH NOTES
The script compresses only the first-level folders within the specified directories. It does not compress the specified directories themselves.

When using the -d (delete) option, the script will not delete a folder if it is the current working directory.

When compressing hidden folders (with the -a option), the leading dot is removed from the compressed filename. For example, .hidden/ becomes hidden.tar.gz.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The bulkcompress utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by enchance.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to your local 7-11.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 enchance.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zip (1),
.BR rar (1),
.BR tar (1),
.BR 7z (1),
.BR mkisofs (1)