.TH EXTRACT 1 "July 2024" "Version 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
extract \- extract compressed archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extract
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR|\fIDIRECTORY\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B extract
is a utility for extracting compressed archives. It supports various archive formats and can process both individual files and directories.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Recursively process subdirectories when extracting from a directory.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delete
Delete the original archive file after successful extraction.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Display detailed information about the extraction process.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be done without actually extracting files.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format =\fIFORMAT\fR
Specify the archive format(s) to process when extracting from a directory. Multiple formats can be specified, separated by commas.
.SH SUPPORTED FORMATS
tar, gz, tgz, bz2, tbz2, xz, txz, zip, 7z, rar
.SH BEHAVIOR
.IP 1. 4
When extracting a single archive file:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Extracts to a folder with the same name as the archive (without extension) in the same directory as the archive.
.IP \(bu
If a folder with the same name already exists, appends a random 6-character hash to the folder name.
.RE
.IP 2. 4
When processing a directory:
.RS
.IP \(bu
Only processes files with formats specified by the -f option.
.IP \(bu
If -r is used, recursively processes subdirectories.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B extract archive.zip
Extracts archive.zip to a folder named archive in the current directory.
.TP
.B extract \-r \-f zip,tar.gz /path/to/directory
Recursively extracts all .zip and .tar.gz files in /path/to/directory and its subdirectories.
.TP
.B extract \-d \-v largefile.tar.gz
Extracts largefile.tar.gz, displays verbose output, and deletes the original archive upon successful extraction.
.TP
.B extract \-\-dry\-run \-f zip /downloads
Shows what would be extracted from all .zip files in the /downloads directory without actually extracting them.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
When processing a directory, the -f option is required to specify which archive formats to extract.
.IP \(bu
The function requires appropriate permissions to create directories and move files.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by enchance.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to your local 7-11.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright©2024 enchance.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tar (1),
.BR gzip (1),
.BR bzip2 (1),
.BR xz (1),
.BR unzip (1),
.BR 7z (1),
.BR unrar (1)
