.TH FIXPERMS 1 "July 2024" "1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
fixperms \- change permissions and ownership for a project directory

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fixperms
[\fB\-\-dir\fP DIR_PERMS] [\fB\-\-file\fP FILE_PERMS] [\fB\-\-owner\fP OWNER] [\fB\-\-group\fP GROUP] [\fB\-\-me\fP] /path/to/project/folder

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fixperms
is a script to change the permissions and ownership of all files and directories within a specified project directory.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-dir\fP DIR_PERMS
Set permissions for directories. Defaults to 755.
.TP
\fB\-\-file\fP FILE_PERMS
Set permissions for files. Defaults to 644.
.TP
\fB\-\-owner\fP OWNER
Set the owner of files and directories.
.TP
\fB\-\-group\fP GROUP
Set the group of files and directories.
.TP
\fB\-\-me\fP
Use the current user as the owner and group.

.SH USAGE
sudo fixperms [\fB\-\-dir DIR_PERMS\fP] [\fB\-\-file FILE_PERMS\fP] [\fB\-\-owner OWNER\fP] [\fB\-\-group GROUP\fP] [\fB\-\-me\fP] /path/to/project/folder

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Set directory permissions to 750, file permissions to 640, owner to "user", and group to "group" for the project directory "/path/to/project":
.B
sudo fixperms --dir 750 --file 640 --owner user --group group /path/to/project
.TP
Set directory and file permissions using the current user and group for the project directory "/path/to/project":
.B
sudo fixperms --me /path/to/project

.SH NOTES
The script will prompt for confirmation before applying changes. It requires sudo privileges to change permissions and ownership.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by enchance.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to your local 7-11.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 enchance.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(1), chown(1), find(1)
